hi everyone its Danny from market nature
so today a thought of making a video
dedicated entirely to fill in Elsa's
flower spikes there's a lot of
information regarding them and many
people are asking what they should do
with the flower spike after the orchid
is done blooming if they should cut it
if they should leave it on and so on so
I'll just try to give you all the
information that I know about fellin
OPS's flower spikes and different ways
of cutting them where you should cut
them if you should or not cut them at
all okay so first of all a felon OPS's
flower spike sprouts from the base of
the orchid and it will extend up it
could be longer or shorter it just
depends on the orchid but the thing is
it has the possibility to continue
blooming for several months and in some
cases up to a year now first case
scenario flower spike can continue
growth even if it already has some
blooms and I have an example here of a
flower spike which stopped growing at
some point produce this flowers and then
it started to grow some new buds once
again from the tip of the spike now in
this case obviously we don't have to cut
anything we just have to sit back and
enjoy the beautiful blooms this orchid
will produce further on now there are
some different cases in which the
flowers will start to fade away and the
orchid will lose all its flowers but
then continue growth from the tip of the
flower spike you'll have another spray
of beautiful blooms in no time again in
this case we don't actually have to cut
anything but just enjoy the new blooms
that will sprout from the tip of this
flower spike but they're not the only
thing an orchid can produce from the tip
of the flower spike and I have here an
example with an orchid that produced a
small little plant lid called keiki
now this ke needs to stay attached to
the mother plant until you will produce
a root system of its own which will take
up to two years or so in the meantime
though you can have the surprised to get
a flower spike from the cake itself so
in conclusion if you have a healthy
orchid and the tip of the flower spike
has not started to dry you can just
leave them and get some more buds and
flowers out of your orchid or even
small or cakey now in some cases the tip
of the flower spike can go yellow and
actually will start to dry out from the
tip towards the base in this case if you
want to try to get another blooming from
your Phalaenopsis orchid you can do
something so if the soar kid wouldn't
have produced any more flowers from the
tip here I would cut this flower spike
just above the final note before the
flowers started to appear for this you
would need a sterilized scissors you can
use alcohol or even a flame and cut
about one centimeter above the last node
you see here now in some cases the
orchid will produce a side shot but this
won't happen in every case if you want
to give it a go and your orchid is
healthy you can cut it just above here
if the orchid decides to produce
something from this note here it can be
either a flower spike which is most
often what happens but it can also
produce a little keiki which will
develop similarly to the one that I
showed you earlier the one that sprouted
from the tip of the flower spike here so
the mother plant will feed the keiki
until it will produce a root system of
its own at which point it can be
separated from the mother plant by
cutting the flower spike right below the
note and just above it and then pop the
keiki separately in case the flower
spike decides to dry all the way down
towards the base of the orchid you can
actually cut this flower spike as close
to the base as possible how to cut the
flower spike will actually depend
firstly on the health of the orchid as
well as your personal preference now if
you have a healthy orchid you can try to
induce another blooming on your
Phalaenopsis and most probably the
orchid will be just fine but if you're
dealing with a very dehydrated and sick
orchid I would suggest you cut the
flower spike all the way to the base I
like to do this because it leaves more
energy for the orchid to focus on
producing new roots and new leaves if
the flower spike on a sick orchid tries
to produce even more blooms or worse a
keiki you're gonna have a very energy
depleted orchid and possibly it's going
to be dead in no time
so if your orchid is Limpy like this or
it doesn't have too many roots I would
strongly suggest you cut the flower
spikes even if they still have flowers
on them to give the orchid a chance to
focus energy on more important things
next season or when the orchid is
healthy again you're going to have a
beautiful display of flowers once again
now many orchid lovers including myself
like to cut the flower spike to the base
and not try to induce another side
blooming and this is because the side
blooms don't necessarily look as good as
the initial blows maybe we'll have just
a few flowers maybe they will be tinier
but we believe that by cutting the
flower spike to the base after the
blooms are done and letting the orchid
focus on healthy and vigorous growth
will produce a better blooming next
season and my fellow knobs orchids seem
to get better and better just because I
don't try to induce any more blooms
after the initial flowers are done what
I like to do actually is to leave them
grow if they have some more buds to the
tip of the spike I like to leave them be
but after these are done I will not try
to cut the flower spike anywhere above a
note I will just cut it to the base and
expect the next season's blooms to be to
be even better but this is just me it's
my personal preference and cutting the
flower spike from above a note can
actually help you if you have an
unidentified orchid that is actually
very healthy and you just want to see
how the orchid looks like so at the end
of the day assess your orchids health
properly and if it's healthy you can try
to get a side blooming or let the orchid
try to produce some more flowers from
the tip of the flower spike but if you
are dealing with a very sick orchid I
strongly suggest you cut the flower
spike all the way to the bottom as hard
as it may be and try to let the orchid
focus on getting healthy again I assure
you the next season or maybe the one
after that you will get a beautiful
display of flowers if your orchid is
healthy okay so I hope you enjoyed this
video I do have another video about how
to care for Phalaenopsis orchids so if
you check the description you will find
a link that
with the basic care requirements for a
Phalaenopsis orchid so if you want to
see other videos don't forget to
subscribe to my channel also you can
leave me any questions or suggestions in
a comment below and I'll try to get back
to you as soon as I can and if you want
to get in touch with our community and
share your orchid stories you can visit
or you can nature calm thank you for
joining and I'll see you next time bye
bye
you